# HDC
## This is simulation code for high dispersion coronagraphy (HDC)

The methodology is described in the following two papers:

1. [*Observing Exoplanets with High Dispersion Coronagraphy. I. The Scientific Potential of Current and Next-generation Large Ground and Space Telescopes*](https://ui.adsabs.harvard.edu/abs/2017AJ....153..183W/abstract)

2. [*Effects of thermal and exozodiacal background on space telescope observations of exoEarths*](https://ui.adsabs.harvard.edu/abs/2018SPIE10698E..5GC/abstract) 

**In summary**, the code simulates the obeservation and data reduction process using HDC. The observation part considers photons from the star and planet, zodiac light in the system, sky transmission and emission, and the telescope thermal background. The data reduction part includes procedures of removing all contamination but the planet light at the photon-noise limit. The planet is then detected via the cross correlation technique by cross correlating the noisy observed planet spectrum with a template spectrum that considers molecules of interest (e.g., biosignatures).   

The input file is:

*ROS128b_J.init*

```
wav_min:                1.1                             # in um
wav_max:                1.3                             # in um
t_exp:                  18e4                                    # in second
obj_tag:                ROS128b_J_H2O                   # appear in saved pkl file
st_spec_path:           template.star.fits                      # spec fits file for star
st_template_spec_path:  lte035-4.5-0.0a+0.0.BT-Settl.fits       # template spec fits file to generate star fits file
st_inclination_deg:     60.0                                    # in degree
st_rotation_vel:        2.7e3                                   # in m/s
st_radial_vel:          0e3                                     # in m/s positive is blue shift
pl_spec_path:           template.planet.fits                    # spec fits file for planet
pl_template_spec_path:  GeometricA_Earth_LowCloud_UltraRes1.dat # template spec fits file to generate planet fits file
pl_inclination_deg:     60.0                                    # in degree
pl_rotation_vel:        5e2                                     # in m/s
pl_radial_vel:          20.4e3                                  # in m/s positive is blue shift
pl_st_distance:         7.5e9                                   # in m 1 AU = 1.496e11 m
pl_radius:              9e6                             # in m 1 Earth Radius = 6378000.0 m
pl_illumination:        0.3                                     # fraction of illumination for a planet
zodi_spec_path:         ../modern_cube_zodi_dir                 #Exozodi simulation fits file
spec_reso:              1024e2                          # spectral resolution
distance:               3.5                                     # in pc
spec_tran_path:         Earth_atm_trans_NSO_GEMINI_N.txt        # atmosphere transmission file path
spec_radi_path:         mk_skybg_zmnq_16_15_ph.dat              # atmosphere emission file path
telescope_size:         10.0                                    # in m
num_surfaces:           10                      # number of warm optical surfaces in the telescope
temperature:            100                             # temperature of the telescope in K
exozodi_level:          1.0                             # level of exozodi relative to the Solar System
pl_st_contrast:         1e-5                    # star light suppression at fiber position
read_noise:             0.0                                     # in electron / pixel per read
dark_current:           0.0                                     # in elsctron / s / pixel
fiber_size:             1.0                                     # in lambda / D fiber sky projection
pixel_sampling:         3.0                                     # pixels per resolution element
throughput:             0.01                                    # end to end throughput
wfc_residual:           5.0                                     # in nm
template_path_thermal:  lte012-3.5-0.0a+0.0.BT-Settl.fits       # thermal template spec fits file to generate planet fits file
template_path:          template.H2O.fits                       # spec fits file for template
template_tag:           H2O                             # appear in saved pkl file
template_type:          reflection                              # reflection or thermal

```

This is the file in which you set up parameters in HDC simulations. Many fields are self-explanatory.

- wav_min and wav_max are starting and ending wavelengths, t_exp is the exposure time, obj_tag sets the prefix for outputs (e.g., log.dat and multi_sim_log.dat, and fits files in *fits_dir*. 

- st_spec_path is the fits file for the stellar spectrum. The fits file will be generated by *create_planet_template_spec.py*, and will be needed by *hci_hrs_sim.py*. The two .py files are the two high-level codes that will be ran by *hci.sh*. The fits file will also be stored in *fits_dir* with the prefix set by obj_tag.  

- st_template_spec_path is the input spectrum that is used to generate the stellar spectrum. This file should be from the PHENOEX spectral librar (e.g., lte012-3.5-0.0a+0.0.BT-Settl.fits in the repository). For any new stellar fits file used by the code, it will need to use the PHENOEX spectrum as a template and replace the wavelength and flux information within.

- st_inclination_deg is the inclination of the stellar rotational axis with 90 degree being an edge-on orbit. st_rotation_vel is the rotational velocity in m/s. 

- pl_spec_path is the fits file for the planet spectrum. Similar to st_spec_path, the fits file will be generated by *create_planet_template_spec.py*, and will be needed by *hci_hrs_sim.py*.

- pl_inclination_deg and pl_rotation_vel are similarly defined as the stellar connterparts. 

- pl_st_distance is the planet-star separation, pl_radius is the planet radius, pl_illumination is the planet albedo. 

- zodi_spec_path is the folder store precalculated exozodi flux level and spectral features. See below for downloading instructions. More details of exozodi calculation can be found in [Coker et al. 2018](https://ui.adsabs.harvard.edu/abs/2018SPIE10698E..5GC/abstract).

- spec_reso is the resolving power of the spectrograph, distance is the distance between the host star and Earth.

- spec_tran_path is the file path for the Earth transmission spectrum; spec_radi_path is the file path for the atmosphere emission spectrum. 

- telescope_size is the aperture diameter. num_surfaces is the number of optics surface and temperature is the instrument temperature for the thermal emission calculation. More details can be found in [Coker et al. 2018](https://ui.adsabs.harvard.edu/abs/2018SPIE10698E..5GC/abstract).

- exozodi_level is the exozodi level in the unit of one Earth zodi. 

- pl_st_contrast is the raw starlight suppression level of the coronagraph

- read_noise is the readout noise of the detector. dark_current is the dark current. 

- fiber_size is the fiber angular extent on sky. pixel_sampling is the number of pixels that samples one resolution element. 

- throughput is the system end-to-end throughput. wfc_residual is the wavefront correction residual of the adaptive optics system. 

- template_path_thermal is the file path of the planet thermal spectrum

- template_path is the generated template spectrum that is used in cross-correlation 

- template_tag is the species to be detected

- template_type determines if the planet spectrum is reflection or thermal. In the case of reflection, st_template_spec_path is used; in the case of thermal, template_path_thermal is used to generate planet spectrum. 

1, For young self luminous planets, we use template_type "thermal".
2, pl_template_spec_path is the fits file that are used to generate observed spectrum.
3, template_path_thermal is the fits file that stores the template spectrum in cross correlation. You can also use, e.g, HR8799_H2O.fits, or HR8799_CO.fits or HR8799_CH4.fits
4, all fits file should follow the PHENOEX spectrum format. That is, for any new fits file used by the code, it has to use the PHENOEX spectrum spectrum (e.g., lte012-3.5-0.0a+0.0.BT-Settl.fits) as a template and replace the wavelength and flux information within.

There are large files that I cannot upload to Github, i.e., a folder named *modern_cube_zodi_dir*, the path of which can be set up in the .init file. The folder can be can be downloaded [here](https://buckeyemailosu-my.sharepoint.com/:f:/g/personal/wang_12220_osu_edu/EtUnbK-4Yz9KsEWCiEQpc7AB0SAyeUMzVbhk6nJERq2-aw?e=ZAbohR):

After downloading the folder, make sure you set up corretly the path in the .init file, e.g.,:
```zodi_spec_path:         ../modern_cube_zodi_dir                 #Exozodi simulation fits file```

After set up. you can run:
```python  hci_hrs_sim.py```

The you will get a few plots:
1, simulated spectra, the information is also store in txt files
e.g.,
atm.txt - telluric transmission
rad.txt - sky emission
pl.txt - planet spectrum
st.txt - stellar spectrum
pl_st.txt - observed spectrum without noise
2, noisy spectrum and template spectrum
3, cross correlation function

The code also spits out the following information:

('number of read = ', 156.59999999999999, 23.0, 0.80000001, 60.0, <Quantity 3394.656182351968>)
('number of read = ', 156.59999999999999, 23.0, 0.80000001, 60.0, 1.2614329685458237)
('number of read = ', 156.59999999999999, 23.0, 0.80000001, 60.0, <Quantity 10343452.93187425>)
('number of read = ', 156.59999999999999, 23.0, 0.80000001, 60.0, <Quantity 355.73614404667796>)
Star flux: 5911923712.0
Leaked star flux: 1773577.25
Planet flux: 210840.65625
Planet flux per pixel: 444.811511076
Sky flux: 6685.15797202
Sky transmission: 0.754592767399
hci_hrs_sim.py:707: RuntimeWarning: invalid value encountered in less
  idx = ((wav < self.hci_hrs_obs.wav_max) & (wav > self.hci_hrs_obs.wav_min))
hci_hrs_sim.py:707: RuntimeWarning: invalid value encountered in greater
  idx = ((wav < self.hci_hrs_obs.wav_max) & (wav > self.hci_hrs_obs.wav_min))
{'SNR_vs_NoiseLess': 2.9887322615269971, 'CCF': <__main__.CrossCorrelationFunction instance at 0x7fb615d17998>, 'Center': -21419.065834811099, 'SNR_RMS': 2.618892293464381}

The above texts include total number of photons from the star, planet, sky, leaded star light in the considered wavelength range. The number of pixels can be calculated by Planet flux
/ Planet flux per pixel. You can use these number for back of envelope order of magnitude calculation.

Another output file is multi_sim_log.dat
which contains info like this:
HR8799e_all                                       ,1.50e+04,3.00e-04, 0.280,2.89e+00,6.98e-01,3.36e+00,8.98e-01
1st column: case name
2nd column: spectral resolution
3rd column: the fraction of detections of 100 simulations
4th column: median value of detection significance
5th column: std of detection significance
6th column: median value of detection significance in photon noise limited case
7th column: std of detection significance in photon noise limited case

